# Data Structure

## Basics

An _adventure_ is a dataset that defines a session of the game. For now, no data is referenced between adventures. It will carry some _metadata_, which is a collection of data used for UI display, a key-value store will do perfectly here, if the list of adventures can be filtered for them (e.g., there could be a field that indicates age rating, and we might filter out those for older age groups).

An adventure has a number of _scenes_. A scene has a locality on the map, not necessarily a point though; it can also be a line or a polygon. The locality means "if the user reaches this locality (or crosses this line, or enters this area), the following unfolds". Scenes maintain two states in general: their activation, which means if the scene will trigger if the player reaches it, and their visibility, which means if they will be shown on the map. Those are orthogonal, a scene can be invisible but active (then the player has to find it by other means, e.g., hints from a previous scene) or it can be visible but inactive (told to the player as a goal in the future of the adventure, so that they can plan for their path towards it). Scenes will also have some metadata for display (if they are visible).

The gameplay logic of a scene will vary between scene types. From simple "reach this location" to "solve this puzzle", "win this fight" etc., this is how the game should scale. Once a scene triggers, players will be presented with the specific gameplay of the scene. This can involve interacting with the app, or doing something in space, like running away from the origin of the scene trigger as fast as possible, or moving towards a goal while keeping the phone still during some "red light" intervals (of course I realize they can cheat by putting it on the floor). 
Scenes can be completed, by solving their gameplay. This will then change the statuses of other scenes, possibly in conjunction with other scenes. Solve the riddle of the witch, get the information about the placements of the guardian crystals. Visit them all, and the dragon boss fight will activate. Scenes can also be abandoned, by moving away or quitting the gameplay logic. That should, however, not change much data-wise, just put the UI into a different state. Players should always be able to revisit scenes and give it another go. Adventures, in general, should always remain solvable.

To incentivize solving the scene in a better fashion, players will have a value that starts at a given value at the start of an adventure, and then is increased or decreased by their actions. It's not really live energy, more like "how well will they look afterwards". Running away from the explosion further will remove less of this value, and doing the side quest of the wood nymph will give a nice boost. Once the adventure is completed, they will get rewards in some way, and this will be multiplied by the stat. And because we all know how this usually goes, let's keep it a set of stats. And of course, there should be a persistent set of stats as well, to which adventures add. Coins, reputation, again: a set is probably the better choice.

Of couse, there will be more concepts depending on how things evolve. Maybe NPC dialog trees. Maybe settings relating to coop play. But as a start, these are the concepts.

## Scene types

A scene is intended to be (at least capable of) gradual reveal. You might not know what awaits you at a certain location, just that it is there, or have partial information. Once you arrive, the actual task is presented. Once completed, further scenes will become available (or the adventure will end). To keep things simple, a scene will only have one task to complete. However, we can use multiple scenes to realize parallel or sequential tasks. 

So, for example, you might be given the hint that the forest on the other side of the stream has had strange visitors, and you should investigate. Once there, you need to actually find some indication via an AR minigame. Once that is completed, the scene technically completes, but a new scene is activated right away and gives you a fight against the creature you just discovered. Once the creature is defeated it will tell you the location of the secret treasure on the hilltop.

Every scene thus has metadata to define what the user sees when the scene is visible, what is presented to the user when the scene _becomes_ visible, and what is presented when the scene becomes activated. Then there is some configuration of what happens when the scene is completed. This might require more complex logic than just graph edges - e.g., the outcome of a previous conversation might dictate which fraction's quest you need to complete next. Also, there needs to be support for more advanced triggers - e.g., the final fight only becomes active if all the guardian stones have been destroyed.